# A reflection on Kohn's writting on the case against grades 

As noted in Kohn's article [case against grades](https://www.alfiekohn.org/article/case-grades/ ), grading in schools has been there since time immemorial and its entrenched into the school systems,i think it will take a lot of sensitization efforts and discussions among people in the education sector and other relevant third parties on the pros and cons of grading and the overall effects it has if any change is to be realized.  
Grading in schools is both appreciated by some and frowned upon by others. For the A students it's probably something that gives them affirmation of their hard work and intellectual prowess.
while its frowned upon by the rest who often feel de motivated and get low self esteem from their low  grades feeling like they don't have what it takes to become successful in whatever subject or career they are pursuing.

Coming from Kenya where the grading system there is almost purely based on what scores one gets on assignments and tests i would say this type of grading system causes most students to only focus on areas they know will be tested and just do the bare minimum that will help them get their desired grades.
The main reasons we go to school is to develop our thinking and acquire new knowledge and skills that will help us in whatever we choose to do with our lives after school and i think if we are able to achieve that then thats commendable because getting A's in school does not guarantee a successful career or life later on.
Hence i think the whole subject of grading should be taken with a grain of salt. If the pressures to perform that come with grading were removed i think one would be able to put more focus into learning as much as they could about their areas of interest and even researching on new areas that they might not be familiar with.

Grading especially one that is based purely on tests just gives an overview of the students understanding on what was examined in that particular test and is not conclusive in terms of what the student actually knows about the entire subject at hand.
I once sat for an exam in quantitative techniques and i got an A in the exam simply because i happen to have revised a paper that was done in a previous exam sitting that had most of the questions in my actual exam. So i could ask myself did the A really mean i was good and knowledgeable in the subject or was it just a matter of luck that i came across  similar questions before the paper.
Some other student might have studied the whole subject from cover to cover and might have been a little bit weak on some of the topics covered by the exam and hence didn't manage to score an A but that would not necessarily mean that i was better than them.

If grades were removed from courses then i think my main motivation would be to become an expert or gain as much relevant knowledge and skills with regards to whatever course i was undertaking .  
I think grades can in some way help in the overall assessment of a student's performance depending on what exactly is graded and how the grades are given. For example if they could get a way to measure what the student has actually managed to learn as a whole and not just based on a particular exam that would be a great start.
When it comes to the question of whether grading has to be done ,then i think its  advantages should be weighed against the disadvantages and an evidence based decision can be arrived at. We should idealy not continue doing something simply because that's how it has alwaya been done but look for more efficient sytems and methods that would yield better results. 
